You've probably spent hours studying
only to forget nearly 70% of it by
tomorrow. Frustrating, right? You've
tried rereading, highlighting, and
staying up late cramming. But still, the
information slips away. The worst part,
it's not your fault. The truth is, your
brain is wired to forget. But what if I
told you there's a smarter, more
effective way to learn? In Japan,
students memorize over 2,000 kanji
characters and retain them for life.
They don't work harder, they work
smarter. And today, I'm going to show
you five sciencebacked tips Japanese
students use to study without endless
hours of memorization. Stick with me
until the end because the final tip
could completely change the way you
approach learning. Tip one, the Kumman
method. The first tip is the Kumman
method, a technique used by Japanese
students to break down learning into
small, manageable steps. Rather than
cramming or trying to learn everything
at once, the Kumman method emphasizes
consistent bite-sized learning that
reinforces key concepts over time. This
method goes against the traditional cram
for the exam approach. Instead of
overwhelming yourself with huge amounts
of information in one sitting, the
Kumman method encourages you to focus on
smaller chunks of information and review
them daily. Popular writer James Clear
explains this in his book Atomic Habits.
He says that small consistent
improvements compound into remarkable
results. By focusing on small steps, you
avoid burnout and create long-lasting
knowledge. Think about it. You wouldn't
expect to run a marathon after one day
of training. You start small and build
your stamina gradually. The Kumman
method works the same way. You master
one small piece of information at a time
and over time your understanding
deepens. Instead of trying to learn an
entire chapter in one sitting, break it
up into smaller sections. Study one
section at a time and review it the next
day. By following this method, you'll be
able to retain information more
effectively and feel less overwhelmed by
the sheer volume of material you have to
learn. Tip two, the Kaizen principle.
The second tip is based on the principle
of Kaizen which means continuous
improvement. The idea is simple. Improve
by just 1% each day and over time those
small improvements will compound into
massive progress. In Japan students
embrace the Kaizen principle by focusing
on small daily improvements rather than
trying to make big leaps all at once.
You don't need to study for hours each
day. Just focus on improving a little
bit every day and you'll see exponential
growth over time. When you focus on
making small incremental improvements,
you avoid burnout and stress. The Kaizen
principle is all about consistency, not
intensity. Even just 6 minutes a day, 2
minutes on active recall, 2 minutes on
spaced repetition, and 2 minutes on
focused practice can make a huge
difference. In a month, you'll be 30%
better at whatever you're learning.
Start by setting aside just six minutes
each day to study. Do a quick session of
active recall followed by spaced
repetition and finish with focused
practice. Over time, these tiny
improvements will add up and you'll see
massive gains without burning out. Tip
three, spaced repetition. If you've ever
watered a plant, you know that you don't
flood it all at once. You water it
little by little over time. Spaced
repetition works the same way. You
refresh your memories just before they
fade. Instead of reviewing everything in
one sitting, you space your review
sessions out over time. You review the
material 24 hours after you've learned
it, then 72 hours later, then a week
later, and finally a month later. This
method ensures that the material sticks
in your long-term memory. The forgetting
curve, a concept in neuroscience,
explains that we forget most of what we
learn within 24 hours if we don't review
it. By using spaced repetition, Japanese
students prevent this forgetting. They
review material systematically, which
helps keep their knowledge fresh and
sharp. A simple way to do this is to set
reminders for yourself to review
material at the key intervals. Spaced
repetition isn't about cramming. It's
about keeping your knowledge fresh
without overwhelming yourself. All
right, let me ask you something. Have
you ever felt like no matter how hard
you study, the information just slips
away the moment you need it? It's like
you're putting in the effort, but it's
not sticking. What if the issue isn't
the amount of time you're spending, but
how you're spending it? Imagine if you
could cut the time spent studying in
half and still remember more than you
ever did before. This isn't just about
working harder. It's about working
smarter. You're about to learn exactly
how you can do that. So, stick with me
because the next tip might just be the
breakthrough you've been waiting for.
Tip four, active recall. When it comes
to studying, most people think the more
time you spend reading, the more you'll
remember. But that's a trap. Memory
strengthens through output, not input.
This means that simply reading,
highlighting, and passively reviewing
notes won't help you retain information.
Think of it like training a muscle. The
more you actively engage with the
material, the stronger your memory
connections become. Western students
often focus on cramming information into
their brains. But the Japanese have a
different approach. They don't rely on
passive methods. Instead, they use
active recall, a method that forces your
brain to retrieve information,
reinforcing those neural connections.
Here's how to put this into action.
Close your book, grab a blank sheet of
paper, and write down everything you
remember about the topic you're
studying. At first, this will feel
frustrating. You might feel like you're
not making much progress, but that's
exactly the point. Those struggles to
recall facts and details are what create
stronger pathways in your brain. Active
recall isn't about remembering every
little detail right away. It's about
forcing your brain to work and connect
the dots. The more you practice this
method, the easier it becomes to retain
that information long term. Tip five,
sue the art of focus. The final hack is
about focus. In Japan, students practice
Sue, a state of deep, immersive
concentration. The goal is to become
fully absorbed in the task at hand to
the point where distractions fade away.
This level of concentration doesn't
happen by accident. It requires rituals
and routines that signal to your brain
that it's time to focus. When you make
studying a ritual, your brain begins to
associate certain activities with
learning. For example, if you always
study in the same place, use the same
pen, or light a candle before you begin,
your brain will start to recognize those
signals as cues for
concentration. This makes it easier to
focus and helps you get into a deep
state of concentration faster. To
implement this, create a dedicated study
space that's free from distractions. Use
the same materials every time you study.
You could even light a candle or play a
specific type of music to signal that
it's time to get to work. By making
studying a ritual, you'll train your
brain to focus faster and more
effectively. Let's quickly recap the
five study hacks you can start using
today. The Kumman method. Break your
learning into small, manageable chunks
and review consistently. The Kaizen
principle. Make small, consistent
improvements every day and you'll see
exponential growth. Spaced repetition.
Review material at spaced intervals to
keep it fresh and prevent forgetting.
Active recall. Strengthen your memory by
actively recalling information, not just
reading it. Sue, the art of focus.
Create rituals and focused environments
that help your brain concentrate. Which
one of these hacks will you try first?
Let me know in the comments below. And
if you want more tips on productivity,
learning, and success, don't forget to
hit subscribe.